# SunTide  :sunny: :ocean:  
<sup> v4.0.0 </sup>  
  
A program to generate .csv files with data containing day-by-day tide predictions and daylight information for a given year.  
   
## Usage Guide
### Setup
1. Install SunTide, see [Installation](#Installation) for details.  
2. If installing from a release (recommended), unzip the release download onto your desktop.
3. If you have a pre-existing config file, put that into the unzipped folder on the desktop.
  
### Adjusting Settings

### Compiling the data
1. Once the settings are to your liking, click the 'Generate Spreadsheets' button.
2. The program will take 2-5 minutes to compile the data, and will save the spreasheets in the same folder that the program is located in.
  
## The Output  
> [!CAUTION]
> While the program was made to be as accurate as possible, there is no guarantee that any of the information generated by this program will be 100% accurate.
> Use at your own risk.
   
### The Suntimes CSV
Contains information such as sunrise and sunset times for every day in the year.
One row per day. The column headers are as follows:  
  
*DAY, MONTH, DATE, SUNRISE, SUNSET, DUR, DIFF, MORE/LESS*  
- Day - The abbreviated name of the weekday  
- Month - The name of the month  
- Date - The day of the month  
- Sunrise - The time of sunrise (HH:MM)  
- Sunset - The time of sunset (HH:MM)  
- Dur - The amount of daylight (hrs:mins)  
- Diff - The change in daylight from yesterday (hrs:mins:secs)
- More/Less - If the change was positive or negative  
> [!NOTE]
> Daylight related times are calculated using the U.S. Naval Observeratory's algorithm.
  
### The Tides CSV
Contains information such as tide height for every day in the year.
One row per tide (so a day can have multiple rows). The column headers are as follows:  
  
*DATE, DAY, TYPE, HEIGHT, TIME*  
- Date - The date (mm-dd)  
- Day - The abbreviated name of the weekday  
- Type - If the tide is low or high  
- Height - The height of the tide in feet  
- Time - The time of the tide (HH:MM)  

If the program is told to get tides for multiple locations, the headers will be arranged horizonally, and a number added as a suffix to each column. For example, if two locations are specified, the headers will be:  
DATE1, DAY1, TYPE1, HEIGHT1, TIME1, DATE2, DAY2, TYPE2, HEIGHT2, TIME2  
Headers with suffix 1 in this example would corrospond to the first location given, and headers with suffix 2 to the second location.  
> [!NOTE]
> Tide predictions are generated by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and retrieved from thier [API](https://api.tidesandcurrents.noaa.gov/api/prod/)

## Installation

### Quick Install (From release)
1. Go to the [releases page](https://github.com/techno-user314/suntide/releases/).
2. Download the appropriate .zip file for your system.
3. Unpack the zip file to your desktop (or wherever you want the program located).
4. You can now use the program. 

### Manual Install (From source)
Recommended for developers only.
1. Ensure [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) is installed.
2. Install dependancies:
   - `pip install pandas requests pytz PyQt6`
3. Clone this repository.
4. Either compile into an executable, or run main.py directly with a Python interperator (3.11+)
